In order to stay alert we already know that we need to head over to ELC assess.
And here let's say after the body I will gonna create some more comments.
And here I'm going to call this the entity classes or you know what we can do.
Maybe Global's it doesn't really matter but you'll see in a second why we are using these classes and
what is the purpose for them.
So let's call them helper utility classes and hopefully this is spelled correctly.
Classes so that's gonna be one thing.
Then again we're gonna have now bars and everything so religious right here now bar and this is gonna
generally understand that we're going to be dealing with our numbers here and then we have our headers.
So right after that we're gonna have the headers and you know what.
No there's one more thing that's gonna be global.
So there's gonna be a little bit of difference whether we're going to have the global styles and helpers.
You don't have to technically do this.
I'll show you that we can just write everything in once they assess blood.
Structuring your sisters also helps you later on if you're looking for something.
So that's something you should keep an eye on.
Let's say here this is gonna be our header and I'm going to start working on her.
And again I'm gonna do the same thing then there's gonna be header and then there's gonna be end of
her what we want within that.
Well first of all we are also selecting the class.
Then we would like to have the main height.
I'm gonna say menhaden is gonna be 100 right.
What would be the difference between generally mean height and height.
If I set this up with a height of hundred.
So if I'm gonna avoid this mean height what's gonna happen is if this is gonna be bigger if there's
more content than hundred Muirhead then the stuff is gonna be cut off.
However if I'm saying men height what I'm saying here is that this header should always be hundred new
heights 100 percent of the screen even though the content is not enough.
So that way if I have only three lines of code this is still gonna be a hundred percent and I always
like to use it for my banners and headers and something like that.
Do you have to use them in height.
Can you just use the height.
Yeah probably but I think it's always much more easier to work with men height especially if you know
that with banner.
I don't think you going to place ten paragraphs in there.
Most likely it's going to be three lines of text.
What else I would like.
Well remember we had the background and what's really cool about the background we have the images.
So let me first look for the images.
I'm going to say you and I'm going to be saying two dots because obviously I'm not right now and let
me see where I'm at actually.
So I am in my style's question would be here very simply I'm actually looking on my set of folder.
I did it a little bit differently that's the reason why I'm having two dots since the style is obviously
within the same folder we don't have to do it in general if you're going to obviously place it c assessed
folder and then within the C assessed folder you can have your styles.
This is we're all gonna have to leave the folder but in our case this is going to be the same folder
so my apologies we're just going to images and then I'm looking for this main background image.
The bad boy here and let's write some kind of right away centering positions because we know that we
can write it the long way or we have the nice set of options where we can just write that the image
is gonna be in the centre then we're going to be covering the whole div then we also would like to do
no repetition as well as this is going to be fixed.
So that way we're gonna be able to scroll.
Now I do want to let you write in a way something about fixed with iPhones as far as I remember they
were not supporting this fixed meaning that you're still the image is not gonna be like let's say scroll.
There's not gonna be no parallax effect as well as the image might not look the best.
So that's something you keep you need to keep an eye on where if you will going to be focusing a lot
on the iPhones and let's say it's probably better idea just to not to use it fixed at all just get rid
of it because it's not going to work anyway on the Mac or I'm not sorry Mac on the iPhone again I might
be wrong but as far as I remember that was the case with an iPhone and using the fix what else we have.
Well we obviously have right now the image there is very bright.
So what would be solution for that.
Remember we had a linear gradient.
So why don't we use this.
So linear gradient but we do need to have this comma.
We were going to omit the comma.
This is not going to work.
So there's going to be an error and we're gonna say here that we're going to be looking for our GPA.
Remember our GPA was the black colour.
I'm sorry not black colour.
That was the colour that allows us to have the opacity or the transparency since they are GPA.
Then I'm gonna be looking for the black colour because I have told you black colour because I already
know that.
I would like to have the black colour.
This is gonna be zero point six.
So it's gonna be kind of dark ish.
And then again we do need to have the syntax Where are we having the com and here I'm gonna say again
our GPA then we're gonna look for the same color so we could have technically copied and pasted and
let's say zero point six.
We know that our background or our linear gradient is gonna be going from the top to the bottom but
if you were using the same color.
Doesn't really matter.
So the whole background is gonna look like this.
If you think this is too dark.
No problem.
Just about zero point five.
You think this is still too dark.
I had something less unless you want to be really creative.
Pick another color.
Doesn't really matter.
I would suggest using our GPA because then you can control the possibly.
But it's not really written in stone.
You can really use whatever you'd like.
Awesome.
So we have the header.
What is next on our agenda.
Well we have the banner right.
So maybe within a header we can just say banner and for the banner I would like to place it in the center.
Now when I say banner What do I mean by banner.
I have the header and I have the David Banner banner has all the text.
What I would like to do is set this banner with position absolute right here in the center.
That way I will have my text as well and center how this is gonna work.
Well very simply say banner then we know that we have an option of let's say position absolute position
absolute.
Now this is gonna obviously take it out of the normal flow.
Then we would need to work with the values because if I'm gonna save it nothing is going to change right
now.
And what we are looking for is Trump is going to be 50 percent and left is also going to be 50 percent.
So now we're setting this up relative to how or I can tell you right away that we have missed something.
There's something missing where this is not going to perform exactly like we would want.
So let me say this.
And first of all we obviously see that we would need to transform this because even though this is technically
in the center it is not really in the center at the moment because it still has its own width and height.
There is also an issue because remember with position absolute we were looking for the first parent
with relative.
Otherwise we're going to be setting this relative to the body.
What is the parent.
I believe it was the header.
Do we have the relative.
No I don't think we do so here.
That's right also position and position.
Marcus is gonna be a relative.
So now we're gonna be setting actually this manner relative to this even though right now I'm gonna
say it you'll say well there was no change.
Yeah.
People because we have nothing else in the document but if you're gonna set this up this is not gonna
be the proper way.
So I always make sure that the parent the one that you would want to place it relative to does have
actually this relative position as a value.
Okay.
What else.
Maybe before we work with transformations we can also do this.
We can say text line is gonna be in the center.
So now this text is going to be nicely sitting in the center.
And when I say nicely we still need to do the transformation.
And how was the transformation.
Remember he had transformed property and within the transform property we had translate X translate
y but we also could use both values whenever we're were using the both values.
First one was x.
Second one was y y is the correct answer.
And then we had an option working with percentages.
So if I know that right now this text is sitting with its own with its own height.
Why don't we add 50 percent move to the left because we're going to move basically the half of the value
of the actual banner as well as move it up 50 percent which is gonna be on the y axis.
So I'm gonna say 50 and 50 and booyah.
This is our text exactly in the center where I can say boom or I'm I've been actually trying to come
up with these names because obviously as you're watching 17 hours you are really getting annoyed with
me repeating something so I have to tell you I have been working on researching what I can say whenever
something good happens or something like that where I have come up with.
Well I didn't really come up with but you'll hear me saying Booyah boom more just like that or something
like that.
What else I would like.
Well I think we can go with letter spacing and for the letter spacing people and the variable remember
the letter spacing so why don't we does this out why don't we say a letter spacing property is gonna
have our variable or a variable is gonna be looking like this and we have our letter spacing are some
awesome everything is working really why we have the text align center we have all these things but
now I'd like to start them all bit more I'm going to say banner subtitle here you're gonna be looking
for a sub title that was our class and just a quick side note I know you're probably wondering you're
looking at this and you're saying OK.
This guy doesn't make sense.
He's having the banner then within the banner setting three.
Then why he's adding this class.
If he could have just work with the sentence selectors right.
So you can say something like this can see a banner and I don't know why have all caps but banner that
I'm looking for having one and then I'm gonna be styling it.
Yeah you can do it.
Especially for this project.
No biggie.
Go ahead.
It's no big deal it's not going to change anything later on as your projects are going to be getting
bigger.
You will gonna start reaching out to some kind of methodology as you're working with CSX.
Now what do I mean by methodology were as your project has five pages ten pages 15 pages.
Seventeen hundred elements whatever.
What happens is that using this kind of structure what it means.
Well I'm gonna be setting this up for that my having having one right.
Well technically that would be heading three.
All right.
The subtitle is having three and what happens if you later on changed this.
If you say well it's not gonna be having three it's gonna be heading for this is not going to apply
anymore because now I'm selecting a three as well as it's going to be harder for you to read later on.
Now if you're using classes that way if this class is gonna be used only setting three I know that I'm
working on this class which again in this case might seem a little bit overkill.
You might be like this doesn't make sense.
I mean he has hanging three why he's adding the class.
There's also gonna be a layer on a well I don't know how much we gonna be implementing to tell you honestly
because I haven't come up with the projects.
The ones that I'm rerecording right now but what.
What's gonna happen is you will gonna meet something called Ben.
This is actually spelled like this.
You gonna write Bam where you are working with a specific methodology which uses only the classes which
are not strictly following this because you would be doing like an underline you'd do something like
this but.
And I think that at the moment it might be a little bit too confusing especially for our first project.
So we're kind of cheating all but but I will gonna try to add classes to all my elements.
That way you can at least start getting used to it.
You don't have to do it again.
You can use something like this descendants.
You can even say like this.
It's also gonna work but I do want to let you know that as you're gonna be progressing with scissors
you will gonna start meeting these methods and methodologies.
Now Bam is not the only one.
Don't get me wrong there's all kinds of ways how you can do it.
People use the utility glasses and so forth and so forth.
But long story short that's the reasoning why I'm using the classes and again I'm sorry I went on for
five minutes but I do think that it's important to explain that because what's happened is that some
person asked this in the comments and then I only answer to that person so I might as well cover this
right now so but who's watching this kind of understands the general idea.
Okay enough of me chatting let's add some fun size shall we.
Let's say two or 3 Ms.
So that's gonna be the text there's gonna be a little bit bigger then I would also want to use that
font family remember that's 9 10 11 so font family and then again two dashes and check this out.
Or boom or bull here.
I don't know how we're gonna try to come up with Mother ones throughout the videos just so you don't
get bored.
But what we're having is these slanted text not the one that I'm looking for.
So let me save this and let's say we're all gonna have to read X text is gonna be slanted.
Awesome.
What else I would like.
Well let me walk with color and then let's use the primary color.
What was the primary color.
I believe it was the green one.
And this is where this is really beautiful.
Now you could do something like this you can say the hashtag and it will gonna technically give you
the values.
So it's not like it's the end of the deal.
Again I don't have to every time say six nine F three f but I think it's also a little bit better because
of the simple reason that I can use the primary color and if I change my mind later on and let's say
this is gonna be not f today then I can say change the color.
Now let me change this back because I do want to have but you understand the idea using this variable
allows you not to jump throughout your document and then just like a crazy person keep changing this
in 50 places.
Granted you have options of finding this by let's say command if this is gonna be one of the nifty things
with Visual Studio code where you just type whatever you're looking for and you can change it in all
the places.
But why would you want to do it if you can just use a variable in the first place.
I think this is much more makes a little bit much more sense.
We have the font size we have the font family and we have the color for now this is gonna be it.
However let me add the animation which is gonna be later on.
So there's gonna be calm and just so we remember that we were gonna be adding animation what else we
have while we have the banner tile right.
So we're gonna say manner then we're looking for the title and what I would want for the title let's
add text transformed first of all we would want the uppercase text is gonna be big.
Then we also gonna add a little bit more font size or three point two or three M's color.
Remember we had the white one.
So when we look for the white color Main White is going to be my color name margin Top Notch has a little
bit of margin same margin top is gonna be an unknown let's say 2.5 are Iams.
So there's going to be a little bit of margin as well as let's change the line had a little bit let's
say line is gonna be one point three.
That should do it.
And then again last but not least let's add the comments for animation that we're going to be adding
on so later on.
So there's gonna be animation.
Okay people.
Now we are arrived to the button and for the button what do we have well if I remember correctly it
was the link linked in which timing.
And if you're looking at the link you noticing that you're right we're having this underline we could
technically go to each and every link and add this text underline none.
However why don't we use the fact that we can use with these help or utility closet.
Now what help are utility classes are going to allow us to do is just to set up some general styles
where you don't have to jump back and forth and changing this.
Now what is that going to work.
So let's say I'm going to say for all the links so all the links that are going to be in our project
I'm just gonna give her this.
And the reason for that is very simple.
Well later on we're going to have the nav bar later on I guess we're gonna have some other links so
what is the purpose of jumping all the time and saying this.
Okay so I don't want this tax declaration why don't we set it up for all the links.
I don't want that tax declaration.
What else we're having.
I would want to have some text white class so every time I would want some text white somewhere I'm
just going to skip it.
I'm just gonna say color and now I'm gonna be looking for again var.
And within here I have my main one that's gonna be my answer you tell a class.
I can also do text center so text center.
And again if those of you who are confused just understand that we are creating these classes right
now and I can add these classes all throughout my document and these styles are going to be applied.
That's the general understanding behind this.
And then we have a text center and here let's do text online and we're gonna be using text center.
Again you're not going to be able to see those classes right now because honestly we haven't set it
up I'm in a project as well as you know the last one or one before last we're gonna be primary and that's
gonna be equal to color.
And here I'm gonna be looking.
Remember we had the primary color.
So let me say color for some reason it's not giving me suggestions and now it does.
And I would like to use this primary color me save it.
And this is gonna be my value for primary color.
Here again I'm going to add a comment.
And this is gonna be for a clear fix.
No clear fix.
We're gonna deal later on as we start working with the float.
So for now I don't want to put too much stuff in your head.
You can just say that there will gonna be later on clear fix and you'll see once we start working with
them why we're actually using this for this.
What we had we had something called banner button.
Now within styles again scroll over here with me say right after the banner title we're all gonna have
our main button.
Now I'm saying that our button.
But then the moment I'm also saying main button.
So what will be the difference.
The general idea is very simple.
So I'm going to have some kind of button I will gonna set up some kind of styles for the button.
However because this is gonna be the banner button we're gonna set up another class there is gonna be
our all throughout my document.
We're gonna be able to use this simple main button and how this is gonna work.
Well let's go back and let's say that there's going to be two classes so we can say main button or stall
as well as com.
And now I'm going to be working for the banner button.
Now all the styles that we're gonna be applying for the main button are can be also applied for the
banner button but banner button we're gonna make it bigger.
What styles we're gonna have display in line.
So this is gonna be displayed this in one block just because we would want the browser to respect the
pairings and margins and all that can also do the background.
The background is gonna be primary color.
That's gonna be as you can see now I'm working with my button as well as I would like to start working
with text.
The creation is going to be none.
And this is the case if I already work with all the links I don't have to do it anymore.
So now I can skip it.
That was the reason why we added this for the links.
A lot of cases which you're going to see is as you're working let's say with I don't know headings and
paragraphs.
There's gonna be some general styles.
Again we're not gonna do this in this project but in general that's the reason why we would do that
text.
We can also do text transform is gonna be uppercase so the text is gonna be bigger than what's had some
padding and not page break patting and patting is gonna be the one that's going to be different for
the different ones meaning for the banner button This is gonna be bigger.
So Ms.
One point to Marion that's gonna be the typical padding but since this will all gonna be the banner
button there's gonna be bigger one.
Also I would want to have some color.
So let's say color is gonna be and for some reason again it's not going to give me suggestions which
is a weird mean dark would be my color.
Let's start out.
I would also want to have font weight to be bold on the fond way it is going to be bolder.
And remember the outline.
Remember that nice thing that we had with buttons or not just buttons where we had the outline properly
and let's write outline.
The property is gonna have value zero point to Mariam so the width.
Then what type of outline solid.
And then I'm gonna be looking for my primary color when the moment I'm say it.
Nothing technically is gonna change because right now you just notice that there is this something kind
of around there's a very very thin black line but what I would like to do is use the outline offset.
That's the whole purpose for this.
So here I am with say the offset is going to be something like four pixels.
And now this looks obviously much more nicer.
Also it can do cursor and we're going to be looking for the pointer and it was save it like this here
as well as we would want to add a little bit transition because I would want to hover this and as I'm
hovering I would like to have let's say different color.
But maybe before we do that and let's add margin top and let's say that this wood is gonna be two our
times something like this and then let's start working with actually our transitions or hovering effect
let's say for the main button.
So main beat in as I'm hovering.
Something should happen and you know what I actually would want to set up for both of them on the same
main button as well as hover as well as banner button.
So I'm going to say Vanna Beatty and also hover.
So as we're hovering over both of them we would want to change them.
Now what.
That something is gonna be going to color is going to be changed so the color is going to change to
main white.
Yeah.
Let me get a suggestion and I'll be getting mine white as I'm hovering.
No I What's what's gonna happen.
But the change happens instantly as well as I would like to change the opacity.
Two zero point seven.
So this is gonna become a little bit more transparent.
Mm hmm.
But here's the thing I would want this change to happen over time.
And remember for that we had transition property and for transition what we had the values.
Mm hmm.
Let me remember Then we set this up in the variables.
So we had what kind of property.
I'm just gonna go with all the properties along zero point three and then easy now.
So the way they transition is gonna take place in this case I can head over back and I can say again
I'm going to be selecting and I would like to work with the main transition and that would be my basic
setup.
We are almost done.
We're almost done with the section but remember that I wanted to work also with the fact that not only
this is gonna be the banner button but the manor button is gonna be a little bit bigger.
What I can do is I can say okay I had all the styles for both of them I had main button banner button
having the same styles but here I'm going to say banner meet n so specifically just for the banner button
I'm going to work with padding where I'm going to say zero point two arms.
So the padding is going to be bigger as well as our arms one point five left and right top bottom should
be bigger and left and right and it's gonna be bigger.
Now this case this banner button is gonna be bigger.
Also we're gonna add here in this specific animation in the next video I believe some when say animation
is gonna be also for this banner button and that's not what I wanted to do.
So let me get this back as well as all throughout the document we will gonna use this main button.
So for all the buttons that are gonna be smaller we're gonna use this main button we already set it
up but just for the banner we add a little bit more padding because we would want it to be looking a
little bit more presentable.
Let's see what we're going to have for now.
And I think our banner looks just awesome.
We can also test it out maybe on a small screen size so let's say how this is going to look like as
I'm going down.
I think this is looks perfect.
And we have successfully added our banner within the header and now maybe let's cover quickly on the
animations insists.